__NOTOC__
==Reference Tool==

{{SITENAME}} can be used just as a reference tool - like [http://www.fixprotocol.org/FIXimate3.0/ FIXimate].

It has a very simple interface - just type into the search box the name or tag number of whatever you are looking for. 

The search box will automatically try to guess what you are looking for and provide you with a dropped down list of alternatives. So you may only need type the first few characters.

For example:
* for a message or component just type in its name - eg "NewOrderSingle" or "Parties".
* for a field, just type in its name or tag number - eg "Side" or "54".
* for a value, just type in the field name and select the value you are interested in from the drop down list. 
* for a data type, just type in the type name plus "DataType" - eg "BooleanDataType"

(Note that you can search for a message by message type by searching for the particular value of the MsgType field - eg "MsgType/D").

====Some Advantages of {{SITENAME}} as a Reference Tool====
{{SITENAME}} has the following advantages:
* It has a very simple but powerful interface
* It provides extra information from the specification - for example, full message definitions taken from the spec and value definitions taken from the FIX spec Volume 1 Glossary.
* Retrieved information is extensively cross referenced by links so you can easily explore from your initial search.
* It shows FIX version differences
* You can look up names which have changed across different versions, by any of the names. For example, tag 32 used to be called LastShares but now is called LastQty. You can look up the field definition by either name.
* It provides a general search capability for searching for keywords anywhere in {{SITENAME}} content (see [[#Search Tool|section below]]).
* When displaying the content of messages and components, the standard definition of each field appears as a pop up when you move your mouse over the field. This is in addition to the message specific definition of the field which appears in the table. Both definitions are simultaneously available without changing pages.
* Lastly, of course, it is not ''just'' a reference tool. It also allows you to contribute directly to the development of the FIX specification. See [[#Contribution Tool|below]].

==Search Tool==

The search box has two buttons - the Go button searches for a page of the given name. 
This is the default (if you just press Enter, it is like you pressed the Go button). 
The Search button searches for the words you have entered anywhere in {{SITENAME}}. 

{{Help:Searching}}

This is a very powerful and fast way of searching the FIX specification (that part of it contained in {{SITENAME}}) as well as contributions made by any user.

==Contribution Tool==

As described above, {{SITENAME}} is a great reference tool. But it also provides a powerful and proven way that you can contribute to the development of the FIX specification.

Your contribution may be any of the following:
* simply highlighting errors and typos in the specification
* clarifying confusing parts of the spec
* adding references to relevant discussions on [http://www.fixprotocol.org/discuss/ FPL's discussion forums]
* providing helpful illustrative examples
* suggesting additions to the spec

See [http://www.fixprotocol.org/discuss/read/9eff71d3 the posting to the FPL Q&A forum] which first announced {{SITENAME}} for a brief discussion of the role that {{SITENAME}} can play in the development of FIX.
