The Financial Information eXchange (FIX) effort was initiated in 1992 by a group of institutions and brokers interested 
in streamlining their trading processes.  These firms felt that they, and the industry as a whole, could benefit from 
efficiencies derived through the electronic communication of indications, orders and executions. The result is FIX, an 
open message standard controlled by no single entity, that can be structured to match the business requirements of each 
firm. The benefits are:
* From the business flow perspective, FIX provides institutions, brokers, and other market participants a means of reducing the clutter of unnecessary telephone calls and scraps of paper, and facilitates targeting high quality information to specific individuals.
* For technologists, FIX provides an open standard that leverages the development effort so that they can efficiently create links with a wide range of counter-parties.
* For vendors, FIX provides ready access to the industry, with the incumbent reduction in marketing effort and increase in potential client base.

Openness has been the key to FIX's success.  For that reason, while encouraging vendors to participate with the 
standard, FIX has remained vendor neutral.  Similarly, FIX avoids over-standardization. 
It does not demand a single type of carrier (e.g., it will work with leased lines, frame relay, Internet, etc.), 
nor a single security protocol.  It leaves many of these decisions to the individual firms that are using it. 
We do expect that, over time, the rules of engagement in these non-standardized areas will converge as technologies 
mature.

FIX is now used by a variety of firms and vendors.  It has clearly emerged as the inter-firm messaging protocol of 
choice. FIX has grown from its original buyside-to-sellside equity trading roots. It is now used by markets (exchanges, 
"ECNs", etc) and other market participants.  In addition to equities, FIX currently supports four other products: 
Collective Investment Vehicles (CIVs), Derivatives, Fixed Income, and Foreign Exchange. The process for modifications 
to the specification is very open with input and feedback encouraged from the community. Those interested in providing 
input to the protocol are encouraged use the FIX website Discussion section or contact the FIX Global Technical 
Committee Chairpersons.

'''The FIX website at http://www.fixprotocol.org is the main source of information, discussion, and notification of 
FIX-related events.'''

We look forward to your participation.
