{{SITENAME}} is a [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wiki wiki] containing data from the 
[http://fixprotocol.org FIX specification].
There is a {{SITENAME}} page for each FIX message, component, field, value or type.

In addition to definitions taken from the specification, each page also has an area for user comments,
clarifications, corrections, examples or suggestions.
Please contribute. You will need to [[Special:UserLogin|log in]] if you want to
contribute.

{{SITENAME}} was created by John Cameron of [http://cameronedge.com/ Cameron Edge] 
and donated to FIX Protocol Ltd. for the benefit of the FIX community.
It is freely accessible by members of FPL.

To edit FIXwiki pages you must request a login account. 
All login account requests will be reviewed by the FPL Program Office. 
Account requests will be granted only to those who are employees of a FPL 
member institution in good standing. 
You are responsible for protecting and securing your login details. 
You must keep your login details secret and take all reasonable precautions to 
prevent unauthorised or fraudulent use of them.  

==Quick Start==

Type one of the following into the search box on the left and click Go
or press Enter/Return:
:* a FIX message or component name (e.g. Confirmation or Parties)
:* a FIX field name (e.g. Quantity)
:* a FIX tag number (e.g. 54)

or if you just want to browse, click on one of the following links:

:* [[:Category:Message | FIX Messages]]
:* [[:Category:Component | FIX Components]]
:* [[:Category:Field | FIX Fields]]
:* [[:Category:Value | FIX Values]]
:* [[:Category:Type | FIX Types]]
:* [[:Category:ExtensionPack | FIX Extension Packs]]

Click on the FIX Protocol logo at the top left at any time to return to this main page.

==More Detail==
[[{{SITENAME}}:Use |Using {{SITENAME}}]].

[[{{SITENAME}}:Structure |Structure of {{SITENAME}}]].

[[{{SITENAME}}:About | About {{SITENAME}}]].

[http://www.fixprotocol.org/etc/fixwiki_video How to use FIXwiki Video Guide]

'''By using this site or requesting a login you agree to abide by the 
[[:FIXwiki:Terms_of_Use | Terms of Use]].'''